Hi, everybody.
My name is Aubrey Ness.
I'm the App Store Operations Manager.
And welcome to session 308,
Managing Subscriptions
with In-App Purchase.
Is in-app purchase important to you?
As you know,
in-app purchase has been wildly
successful on the app store.
Another thing you might not know is
that some of the most popular apps,
the ones that are on
our top grossing charts,
are making their revenue
solely from in-app purchase.
Whether or not it's a paid app that
has in-app purchase to unlock new
features or add additional content,
or if it's not even a paid app,
it's a completely free app for download,
they're also making their
money off of in-app purchase.
And that is amazing to us,
that these guys can be part of the
top grossing charts on the store.
Furthermore, we know that iOS users
expect a lot from you.
They want you to update the
app to give them new content.
They want you to fix bugs.
They want you to continuously
giving them something new.
And subscriptions are a really great
new way to take advantage of that.
It's sort of like you're
establishing this long-term
relationship with your customer.
It's really kind of a
communication and dialogue that
you're doing within the app.
And we want you to take advantage
of the subscription model to be
able to deliver those recurring new
pieces of content you might have.
And then it gets your customers
more excited to download your app,
gets them more excited to launch the app
every day and kind of see what's new.
So with that, today's agenda,
we're going to talk about how to actually
implement auto-renewable subscriptions
Then we're going to talk a little bit
about our older model of subscriptions,
non-auto-renewing subscriptions.
And we really want to make it
clear to you which one will
be better for your business.
Then we're going to talk
about iTunes Connect setup.
We want to make sure that you're
setting all this up correctly so that
you can be successful in the app store.
We're going to talk about the
customer experience based on what
you set up in iTunes Connect.
And finally,
we're going to discuss some best
practices and some pricing information
that you can take away at the end
of this session to go implement.
And to kick us off,
we'll go ahead and bring up David Neumann
from iTunes Store Engineering to give
you some education on Subscriptions 101.
Okay, thank you.
[Transcript missing]
The key attribute of these things
are that they are iOS only today.
They're restorable.
Now,
non-consumables are an in-app you may
be familiar with are also restorable.
But there's also these things called
consumables which aren't restorable.
And you'll find that auto renewables are
kind of a hybrid of both these things.
They are both restorable and
consumable in that you can buy
the same one over and over again.
[Transcript missing]
Now, let's zoom into one of those
periods and talk about some of the
details that happen in each one.
So, the first thing we're going to do
after the user buys for the first time,
but only after that initial purchase,
is we're going to send this
welcome email to the user.
It says purchase confirmation,
but basically it introduces
the user to the subscription.
It tells them how they can control
their auto-renew settings or if
they wish to auto-renew where
they can go to turn it on or off.
It has privacy policy information
and a bunch of other stuff.
That's just sent once.
After that gets sent,
you actually have this
active subscription now.
Now,
if someone clicks a buy button in the
middle of your app when it is active,
we're going to raise a
dialogue that looks like this.
It says you're currently
subscribed to this.
Basically,
we know whether you're subscribed to
it and we won't let you buy it again.
So, another thing we're going to
send during the lifecycle of
this is a renewal reminder.
Now, I have like 20 subscriptions
and most of them are monthly.
And not all of them, but most of them.
And it would be kind of
annoying if we sent 20,
for people like me,
20 renewal reminders every single month
when something got close to expiration.
So, we don't do that.
We actually aggregate
these things on the store.
We look at everything in the next month
that's just going to expire or everything
in the next month that's going to renew.
And we have, you know,
at most two aggregated emails
which go out at most once a month.
But again,
we're only looking at stuff which
is going to expire or renew soon.
So, if you had a yearly subscription
like in our previous example,
in that case,
you're only going to see one of these
emails and it's basically going to be,
you know,
basically like the end of the life of it.
Anyway, enough of that.
So, that gets sent.
Important point that's not in any
docs anywhere is what we do at
T-minus 10 days to expiration.
And to illustrate kind
of what we're doing,
we're going to send a new
subscription to iTunes Connect.
And to illustrate kind of
what we're doing there,
I want to just talk about
what happens for a particular
event like a price increase.
In this scenario where
you may be accidentally,
may be on purpose,
but sometimes accidents
happen and you may have
accidentally increased the price,
it goes up, it goes down.
For this user,
since it happened before this 10-day
period or time in this subscription,
those changes are invisible to this user.
Now, if they happened after the 10-day
period and you're in the subscription,
you're going to have to
wait a little bit longer.
So, you're going to have to
And you're in this 10 days to expiration.
We're actually going to be
looking for price increases.
And if we see them,
we're going to turn off auto renew.
And we're going to send
an email to the user.
And if the user approves
the higher price,
then we're going to turn auto renew
back on and you're back in business.
Okay.
Now, another thing we're going to be
doing during this period is testing
for the user's ability to pay.
If a user maybe had a
credit card when it started,
obviously, but maybe they pulled
the credit card off,
maybe they tried to buy a song
and their card gets to go.
Maybe their card is expired.
You know, there's a lot of things
which can go wrong.
If something goes wrong,
we're actually going to start looking
for it now and we'll send out an email
to the customer if it looks like we
think they're not going to be able
to pay because we don't want them to,
you know, lapse on their subscription.
Okay.
Now, at T minus 24 hours to expiry,
this is the window within
which we're actually going
to try and renew the thing.
Now, this doesn't mean we're actually
going to try and fire off renewal
purchases at T minus 24 hours.
It just means that somewhere in there,
that's when we're going to
start to see a lot of changes.
We're going to start doing it.
Now, if it fails,
we're going to keep trying
to renew this subscription.
But eventually,
a little bit after expiration,
we're going to basically give up.
Send a billing problem email if
we think that we had to give up
because of a billing problem.
Now, the user will get that email.
Hopefully, they will either go into
iTunes and basically fix
their billing info and then,
you know, inside iTunes,
interactively renewal there.
Or they might, in your app,
click buy again.
Now,
when it was active and they clicked buy,
you know,
they got that other dialogue which says,
hey, you're already subscribed.
Well, now they're no longer subscribed.
So instead,
you just get the same confirmation type
dialogue and the purchase happens again.
Except in this case,
I call it interactive
renewal buy has occurred.
Their subscription is
active again in this case.
But you have this service gap.
Now, if you have an audio streaming
or video streaming type
service or something like that,
you don't really care.
But if you have a subscription
to discrete content like
magazines and so on,
well, that could be a deal.
I mean,
because if that gap is big enough,
you know,
might have missed -- that customer
might have missed an issue they
otherwise would have been entitled to.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
Now, I just mentioned cancellation,
so a note on that.
Users cannot cancel.
They can't do anything in a live
subscription inside iTunes that will
cause the service to be terminated
and for their money to be returned.
However, iTunes customer support
does have this capability,
and for customer satisfaction reasons,
they can go in and cancel something.
And when they do,
that's when you see this cancellation
date show up in the receipts.
And furthermore,
that's when verify receipt,
which we'll talk about more in a sec,
will return inactive and
return active immediately.
All right.
So a few other new things.
These are the timestamp additions.
There isn't any new data here.
It's just we're providing PST and
milliseconds in the receipt for
all these different timestamps,
expires date, purchase date,
original purchase date, and so on.
These are just a developer convenience.
The milliseconds is just
more machine friendly.
It was available for some
timestamps but not all.
This makes it consistent.
PST format is more human friendly.
And you might be wondering why add
PST when we already had GMT in there.
We wanted PST in there because
in the iTunes store we do
calendar-based renewals.
That means if I buy something
on the 5th of March,
the 5th of April, the 5th of May,
the 5th of June, and so on and so forth,
it's always going to be on the 5th.
Customers can predict when
the renew is going to happen.
But that means,
as this example illustrates,
some weird things can happen.
And I just want to give you
the example so you understand.
If you order a monthly subscription,
for example, at 2 a.m.
on April 1st in New York City,
that's Eastern Standard Time.
Now, in California, that's March 31st.
So why does that matter?
Well, the customer,
they're looking at their calendar,
they see the 1st.
But when they see dialogues from us,
when they get e-mails from us,
when they look at the UI from us,
they're going to see something talking
about essentially the end of a month
and not the beginning of a month.
So if you've ever wondered why you
saw something like that on occasion,
this hopefully will
shed some light on that.
All right.
So let's talk about how these
receipts are used when you
do something like a purchase.
So the players we have up here is
the iPhone representing your app.
You've got the iTunes store there at
the top with the little note icon by it.
And this is supposed to be your
server down here at the bottom.
Okay.
So we do the buy request
and a receipt is generated.
Basically a transaction
record is generated.
It is returned to your app.
And you take that receipt and what
you should do is unlock content.
So you want to pass that
to your server to do that.
So you're going to present the receipt
to your server and your server should
turn around and call verify receipt.
So it calls verify receipt and
when it does it passes the receipt
and it passes the shared secret.
The shared secret is one of
these things you configure in
iTunes Connect and here's a place
where it actually gets used.
Now what we're going to do is
return one of these statuses.
Okay.
So let's talk about why you'd
want to call verify receipt.
Initially after a buy, after a buy,
you're going to want
to call verify receipt.
after a purchase, I should say.
If you call this,
this assures you that that
purchase really happened.
Your server doesn't know from
Adam this thing that's coming
in and sending it the receipt.
It could be a receipt for
a totally different app.
It might be just a bunch of characters
that have no meaning whatsoever.
Is your server just going to
take its word for it and provide
service to whatever called?
I don't think so.
So you call verify receipt,
you can find out if it's really
a receipt that's actually
signed by the iTunes store,
and furthermore, since you can get the
properties of the receipt last,
you can find out that it's actually
for your app and not someone else's.
So this is important.
If everything is in good shape,
we're going to turn green there.
That's zero, active.
But if there's something tampered with or
something not right about that receipt,
we'll return malformed.
So that's why you want to call
it initially after a purchase.
Now,
in the time after the initial purchase,
you're still going to want to call
verify receipt because this is
how you're going to learn about
renewal on an expired receipt if
that's all you have on your server.
This is how you can find out
about cancellation immediately
after someone -- basically,
you can have a receipt
that hasn't expired yet,
but if you call verify receipt, say,
every day or every month or whatever,
you can find out about cancellations
more promptly and maybe terminate
service if that's your business model.
Also, if it's active,
you're going to get the latest receipt.
You don't actually have to wait
for the client to send it to you
for you to get the latest receipt.
You can actually find out
for yourself on the server.
And finally, we're always going to give
you the last good receipt.
So you can find out for
yourself on the server.
And finally, we're always going to give
you the last good receipt.
And this could be useful
because even if it's expired,
you're going to get info
about that last good receipt.
And if you know when something lapsed,
that helps you compute a
meaningful maybe grace period.
Okay,
so let's go back to this diagram here.
Let's say we've returned status zero
for success because everything worked.
And now that our server is completely
satisfied that this purchase is in order,
your server is satisfied,
your phone is satisfied,
now is the time to
finish the transaction.
So, we still don't have any content yet.
So, let's see about getting that.
So, we call get content and this is
something you might call right after
the purchase or this might be something
you call in the hours and weeks
and days after that initial purchase.
The point is after the purchase,
your clients are going to be
coming in and asking for content.
Now, when they do so,
they should probably
just present the receipt.
They could present the original
transaction ID and we go
through this whole cycle of,
you know,
verifying the receipt again and all that.
But the point is you come back after
you finish the transaction and over the
space of the life of the subscription,
you're going to be calling get
content in some way or another.
So, in this case, there's like this new
issue of a magazine.
It gets returned to
your phone in that case.
In this situation,
we have paid with the iTunes store.
You verified that the payment
is all in order with your server
calling ours for verified receipt.
Once you know you're in a position
to fulfill the customer's purchase,
you finish the transaction so
that gets out of the queue.
And then finally,
over the course of the days and months,
you've delivered some content.
All right.
Now, for this renewal example,
I want to just pretend that someone
actually would put their phone in a
drawer when they went on vacation.
So the phone is not on.
The app isn't running.
But meanwhile,
the iTunes store is running
and we're renewing this thing.
So maybe a month goes by and
another month goes by and we've
got two renewals sitting out there.
So what happens when the user
comes back from vacation?
They come back, they fire up their phone,
they go to your app.
Right now,
the app just has one issue of the app.
issue of a magazine and
it's got one receipt.
Well, StoreKit is going to recognize that
there's some outstanding transactions for
this user and it is just going to go get
those transactions and pull them down.
So now your phone knows
about these three receipts,
but it doesn't have any content yet.
So once you do that,
whenever your app wakes up and
it finds these transactions,
just like you would do
after a buy or purchase,
you're going to pass that content to
unlock anything associated with it.
In this case, we're passing two receipts
down to your server.
We're going to verify those receipts just
like we did after the original purchase,
make sure nothing got canceled,
and so on.
And finish the transaction
once we're satisfied,
once our server has told us, yes,
I've processed these receipts,
everything's in good order,
go ahead and finish the transaction.
So you do.
And now when you get content by maybe
presenting the receipt again and
going through the whole verify cycle,
well,
it turns out there were two issues of a
magazine that this user was entitled to
because of the two previous purchases
that had happened while they were out.
So we return that to the user.
Okay,
so we have renewed on the iTunes Store.
A few weeks go by.
The app, when it wakes up,
is going to discover this content.
That content,
the proof of those purchases
have been sent to our server,
sent to your server.
You verify them.
Once all that has been acknowledged,
we finish the transactions
in the iTunes Store.
And as it turns out,
we've delivered some content.
It turns out, you know,
two issues of a magazine.
Okay.
Now, for Restore All,
this isn't new for auto renewables.
You'd want to do it for
other kinds of in-apps,
too, like non-consumables.
The thing that's unique about
Restore All for auto renewables
is the fact that you're not going
to get just one receipt back.
You're not going to get the first one.
You're not going to get the last one.
You're going to get all of them.
So if you have 24 months of a monthly,
when you call Restore All,
that user is going to
get 24 receipts back.
Now, why do you want to do this?
The most obvious reason is because, well,
devices can get wiped out.
Apps can get deleted.
You want to be able
to allow users to get,
you know, their service re-enabled
or get the lost content.
Now, another thing you think you should
be aware of with Restore All is
what happens with multiple devices.
So you have this phone,
and you've bought the app,
and you've got the receipt on it.
Great.
Now, you get another phone.
You do a Restore All.
Something happened when that Restore
All happened in the iTunes Store.
Not only did it get restored,
iTunes Store now knows
about both of these devices.
That means when a renewal happens,
we actually put a transaction
back in the iTunes Store.
So you can see the transaction
in the queues of both devices.
And if a third device comes along,
you can restore on that.
Notice in this case two receipts
came down instead of one.
When renews happen,
there's going to be transactions in
the queues for all those devices.
So this way,
it's sort of like auto-download
for in-apps with auto-renewables,
just so you know that's going on.
So some things about the sandbox.
[Transcript missing]
Now, one last thing about the Sandbox
I want to talk about is some
app review considerations.
This happens to everybody
who uses auto renewables.
It's a tricky thing and the best way
for me to explain it is first to talk
about the development environment,
then the production environment,
and then the hybrid
environment that is app review.
So in development,
you have a dev-signed app.
Dev-signed apps are hardwired into
talking to the iTunes Store Sandbox.
Now,
dev-signed apps are also hardwired to
probably talking to your test server.
Of course,
test servers are going to want to
talk to the iTunes Store in test.
So it's test, test, test.
And that all makes sense.
Now,
you go into production and it's the same
deal except it's a production-signed app.
Production-signed apps talk
to production iTunes Store.
to your production server.
Production servers verify receipts
against the production iTunes Store.
And this is all consistent.
Production, production, production.
Okay.
But in app review,
you have this hybrid deal.
You have a production-signed app, okay,
but it just thinks it's talking
to production iTunes Store,
but it's not.
It's talking to the Sandbox.
But your production-signed
app is hardwired to talking
to your production server.
So you have this situation where
you have your server having to,
in one case,
talk to production iTunes Store,
and in another case, talk to Sandbox.
Okay.
So what can you do about this?
There's several different strategies.
I'm just going to mention two.
One I call the smart production server.
In this case,
what you do is you pass to your
server the version ID of your app.
And hopefully your server is aware of
what's in production and what isn't.
And if it sees like a 2.0 and it
knows the highest version that
is actually in production is 1.5,
it can discriminate and send the verify
receipt request to the right place.
But I think a more bulletproof and
probably higher performance way to
go is the reactive production server.
So in this case,
your production server always talks
to iTunes Store production first,
and 99.9% of the time,
that's going to be the right thing.
But once in a blue moon,
the next version of your app
will be reviewed in app review.
So that production server will
get one of these Sandbox receipts.
When it does,
we're going to return status 21007,
that's Sandbox receipt
received in production.
And that's your signal to go off and,
okay,
that's not -- this is a Sandbox receipt.
Someone's doing some app review.
I'll just go and talk to iTunes
Sandbox to handle this receipt.
All right,
so using non-auto-renewing subscriptions.
This subscription name so
poorly I gave it a new name.
So here's what it's about.
Basically, these kinds of subscriptions
are a kind of consumable.
You can buy them again and again,
which is what you want with
something that's a subscription.
You want to have the same thing.
You can buy it again and again.
That rules out non-consumables.
So it's a kind of consumable.
All purchases happen
interactively in the app.
There's no background purchasing
with this sort of thing.
So it's all upfront purchasing.
You're in the app doing the renewals.
So those sound like downsides.
And maybe they are.
But the reasons you'd want to use
this are you do theoretically have
more control over the situation.
And so do your users.
So that's nice.
But bottom line is not all apps
are going to be allowed to use
auto-renewing subscriptions.
So this is what you have to work with.
So what are some strategies you
can use for something like this?
There's several.
I'm going to talk about one in some
detail and touch on another one.
But one of the things I'm going to
talk about is the fact that you can
use auto-renewing subscriptions.
One strategy is iCloud strategy.
So the idea here is that you save
the purchased receipts in iCloud.
Being consumables,
these receipts can't be restored
on demand from the iTunes
store once they're finished.
That's why you have to
save them someplace.
And iCloud is a pretty
convenient place to put them.
Basically,
you can access these receipts if
they're saved in iCloud from any device.
So it kind of handles
some restore scenarios.
There's no extra
registration step for iCloud.
I mean, users are registered by the
time they turn on their phone,
if it's iOS 5 or higher.
So that's nice.
Now, regardless of where these
receipts are stored,
you need to, you know,
test if something has
expired or not in the app.
So how can you do that on something
where the receipt that you have
doesn't have an expiration date?
Well, fortunately for you,
there's no opt-ins and there's no trials.
So you actually can
take the purchase date,
combine that with your product
ID from which you can derive
the duration and you can figure,
you know, what your expiration date is
and do some expiration testing
when people are using your app.
So let's just kind of diagram this
out and look at how it might work.
All right.
So you've got your app and you buy
one of these consumable-like products.
You get a receipt back for it.
You
And the very first thing you
do is you store this in iCloud.
So once your app stores it in
iCloud and your app knows it's
successfully stored in iCloud,
then and only then do you
finish the transaction.
Okay, because once that
transaction is finished,
it's gone.
It's gone from the queue.
And you want to finish the
transaction because if you don't,
that transaction will hang
around in your queue and every
time a user goes to their app,
they're going to be prompted
to log in to get it.
So you need to finish it,
but you just need to finish
it at the right time.
All right.
So you've got that receipt.
Now you just unlock service pretty
much like we did in the first example.
So receipt gets passed to your server.
You verify that it's actually a
legitimate receipt from the iTunes
store and you can unlock service.
So the user is paid.
You've persisted the thing someplace,
in this case iCloud.
Once you know you've
successfully persisted it,
you've acknowledged that with
the iTunes store by finishing the
transaction and then finally you've
flipped on service when you told
your server about that purchase.
Now, the renewal is manual.
It all happens in the front.
So what is that like?
Your phone wakes up.
Every time it launches,
it should check for receipts,
in this case in iCloud.
It gets the receipt.
It checks for expiry.
Now, you know, 99% of the time when
it checks for expiry,
nothing's expired.
But eventually it's going to be expired.
And when it does,
you can present the buy button
to the customer and ask them,
hey, do you want to renew
your subscription now?
If they agree, they click buy.
You buy the consumable again.
You get another receipt.
This is receipt number two.
Store that.
Once you're sure that's stored,
finish the transaction and
then you unlock service.
Just like we did in the previous case.
Pass the new receipt, verify it,
and you're back in business.
All right.
So we've queried for status by looking
at our stored receipts in iCloud.
We know the purchase date of all
those receipts and we have the
product ID in all those receipts.
So we know when each of them expired.
And if things have expired, well,
we're going to let the user buy again.
We'll persist that new receipt.
We'll acknowledge that by
finishing the transaction and
then we'll extend service.
Okay, so in this restore example,
we've got a phone that
has just been wiped.
Okay, so it's completely empty.
It's just like in the previous example.
There's really no difference.
As long as your app is always set up to
always get receipts from iCloud first,
this app is going to discover, oh, look,
I've got two purchases.
It's going to pull those
down and unlock service.
and verify the receipts just like
before and you're back in business here.
So we can query status just like
we did in the previous example.
We verified with the iTunes store
when we verified the receipt
and we've enabled service.
Now that all sounds great except
there is this one downside.
And I don't know how common
this is and maybe it's not a big
deal but it's just a problem.
So you've got this phone.
It's your phone.
You're still you.
You've not logged out of it at all as
far as the iTunes store is concerned.
But maybe you log out of iCloud.
I don't know why but maybe you do.
If you do, you log out.
Log in as a different user.
Those receipts have essentially
disappeared from this app.
This app is going to
look for those receipts.
It's not going to find anything.
So, you know, status is queried.
No receipts.
No service.
So what can you do about this?
This is a totally optional strategy,
I just want to stress,
but you could register the user.
I mean, it basically could be an
account registration step.
The idea here is you ask the user
to register before they purchase,
after they purchase,
but before you finish the transaction,
you need to do two things.
You need to take that receipt and
that account they just created,
you need to pass them in one
transaction to your server,
make sure that receipt is saved,
make sure you've associated it
with that registered account,
return success,
and only when you've returned success
that your servers accomplish this,
that you finish the transaction.
And now moving forward,
you consult your server for receipt
restoration instead of iCloud.
You consult your server for this
expiration testing instead of iCloud.
So the basic responsibilities are you
need to associate receipts with a user.
And iCloud kind of does
that automatically,
so that's nice, so that's easy.
But if you don't want to use that,
you need to do it yourself and you
need to ask the user to register,
which is a little more work
for both you and your user.
You need to persist the receipts.
You can either use iCloud storage
in the previous example or your
own server in the second example.
But no matter where they're stored,
you need to provide a way for users
to get at those receipts so they
can do restore-alls and get their
content back or their service back
regardless of which device they're on.
Okay,
so let me just talk about up everything
I talked about in this little section.
We talked about the
subscription life cycle.
I wanted you to know what happened when,
the kinds of checks we do,
the kinds of emails we send and why
we send them and when we send them.
I wanted you to have a better idea of
the kinds of things which are important
in a receipt for auto renewables
and how those receipts fly around
between all the different parties,
your app, store, your servers.
We've talked about some limitations
and considerations in the sandbox.
And finally,
we've talked about some approaches
for using non-auto renewables.
For talking about customer experience,
here's Aubrey talking
more about iTunes Connect.
Thanks, Dave.
So, we have a bunch of different ways
that you have an opportunity to
interface with your customers.
And Dave talked a little bit
about all of these different email
confirmations that go out throughout
the subscription life cycle.
So, I'm going to step through some
areas of iTunes Connect and show
you exactly the impact that what
you enter in iTunes Connect will
have in these email confirmations.
I'm also going to cover
just basic device UI.
So all of the UI that is
generated for your customer,
you might be wondering how the
information you're entering in ITC is
actually showing up to that customer.
We get these questions a lot and we just
want to make it really clear for you.
So if you're currently
selling on the App Store,
you're all using iTunes Connect.
And I'm going to cover three different
areas of iTunes Connect that relate
to your customer's experience.
The first is going to be metadata.
Second, pricing.
And third, availability.
So let's talk about metadata.
Now, what is metadata?
Well, it's just information
that you're entering.
We know that iTunes Connect is the
gateway to the App Store and everything
that we collect from you in iTunes
Connect ultimately will display in
the App Store with the exception of
a couple pieces of information that
are facing just for you for reporting,
et cetera.
So let's talk about the most
important piece of metadata that you
will enter in iTunes Connect when
it comes to your subscriptions.
That's the In-App Purchas display name.
And if you take one thing
away from this session today,
it's that this needs to be right.
And that really is because this shows
up in the most areas for your customer.
And I think you'll be surprised to see
all the different places this will show.
Imagine if you spelled it wrong.
Probably wouldn't be a great
thing for your customer.
And this is why we call this
your subscription brand.
It's your opportunity to brand
your In-App Purchas to name it
correctly to describe exactly what
you're offering to your customer.
It's entered right
here in iTunes Connect.
And you do have an opportunity
here to think globally.
We offer 28 different languages
for localization in iTunes Connect.
And we really want to encourage you
to take advantage of that because it's
a great experience for the customer.
We base all of these settings on the
customer's iOS language or OS language.
So we will make a smart decision about
what translation of your In-App Purchas
display name will show up to them.
So we want you to take advantage of it.
The most successful developers
are the ones that are
localizing and moving globally.
Now, first example,
we're going to go through
my New Yorker subscription.
So In-App Purchase display name shows
right there in the subject line of the
email and in the body of the email.
And this is that subscription
confirmation that goes out
immediately after a purchase.
We also show you display
name in the receipt.
and in the price increase notification
that goes out in the subject
line and in the email itself.
And I'll talk a little bit more
about these price increase emails
later when we talk about pricing.
Also, your auto renewal reminder,
so when the customer gets that nice
reminder email letting them know
they have something renewing soon,
again, right there in the renewal.
In the Manage Subscriptions UI,
title bar of the iPhone and
in the Manage Subscriptions,
every time they go visit
this area of the App Store,
they will see your display name.
and if not the most important dialogue,
the gateway to get them to
purchase your subscription.
Right there in the UI,
you'll see the display name.
And now after you're live on the store,
you're doing pretty well
on your app product page.
There it is again.
You also have the ability to customize
this using SK Product Class and
StoreKit so you can pull in the
display name that you enter in iTunes
Connect to display right in the UI.
You can also take
advantage of the pricing.
You can pull that in and the description.
So we like to show
examples of what not to do.
And we really don't want you to name
your In-App Purchasse subscription
because subscribe to the subscription
looks a little weird and probably is not
going to lead to a lot of subscriptions.
So keep that in mind.
Another thing,
don't encode the duration of
the subscription into the name.
Subscribe to one year
subscription for one year.
It's a little redundant.
And we have seen this, by the way.
So keep that in mind.
And moving on to the second piece
of metadata I want to cover,
publication name.
Now, this is an opportunity to take
advantage of the marketing
opt-in that Dave talked about.
And we wanted to give you some
flexibility about displaying
a different piece of metadata
just for this information.
So this is another opportunity to
brand yourself as a publication.
Maybe you're not
specifically a publication,
but you can still use this to
have that pop-up in the UI.
Now, it's entered in iTunes
Connect just like the display name.
And this is actually new for 2012.
And this was a direct
request from developers.
They wanted more flexibility to be able
to enter a different piece of data.
It's another opportunity to localize.
Take advantage of this.
28 languages worldwide.
And to show you exactly
where this shows up,
we have House and Garden here.
House and Garden wants me to
share my personal information.
Well, that's a big decision
for me as a customer,
so I want to know exactly who I'm
sharing that information with.
Putting in your developer
name is not a great strategy,
so we want to recommend that you
always think about what the publication
name is going to be because it's
going to lead to that really valuable
piece of information that you're
going to have in your opt-in reports.
Privacy Policy URL and Support URL,
another piece of metadata.
Entered for your apps in iTunes Connect.
The Privacy Policy URL is
required for free subscription.
It's also required for
auto-renewable subscriptions,
so we will ask for this.
And we do display these,
both the support URL and the privacy
policy URL in the email confirmation.
We display the support
URLs all over the App Store.
As a marketplace for you,
we want to make sure that we're
putting your customers in front
of you to get the help and offer
the feedback about your apps.
So it's really critical
to get this URL right.
Make sure that it sends the customer
somewhere to where they can actually
reach you to get the support.
You'd be surprised at how many of
the reviews we see on the store
from customers that are dissatisfied
with not hearing from the developer
if they're trying to reach out
to them through the support URL.
And if the support URL is dead,
it's likely going to get you an
unhappy rejection from App Review.
So keep that in mind, too.
The last piece of metadata
I want to cover is product IDs.
Also very important for your code,
best practice we want to
recommend here is entering the
duration into your product ID.
This is great for the non-auto
renewing because then you'll be able
to identify what the duration is.
And your reports for each transaction
in your sales and trend reports and
in your payment financial reports
are going to reflect the product ID.
So it's really convenient if you
actually have the duration encoded
right there in the product ID.
So let's move on to pricing.
Great thing about the App Store is
that you have the ability to price
freely and accordingly based on the
content you upload at the app level
and at the In-App Purchas level.
You can change this at any time in
iTunes Connect and it is live immediately
in the App Store to your customer.
So looking at the price increase
notification that goes out,
Dave described how and when we send this.
But I wanted to sort of zoom in
here on the area where we show the
before price and the after price
that will go out to the customer.
We want you to be aware
of how this functions,
because if you do go in
and you do change pricing,
we do recommend that you understand how
this is going to affect the customer.
It's not going to immediately
necessarily blast out your customer base,
but we want you to know that
it will disable the auto renew.
So you can see here for my New Yorker,
they raised the price on
me during my subscription,
and they want me to go ahead and
opt in again at the higher price.
So you can see on the right,
we have the manage
subscriptions UI again,
and I have to voluntarily opt in.
And you can run sales in iTunes Connect.
You can set pricing in advance.
You can set your In-App price.
Maybe you want to run a specific
sale on a specific date.
And we encourage you to do this.
Just be very aware of how it's
going to affect your end user.
And just something to note,
price decreases don't send out
notifications to your user.
It's just kind of an added perk
for the customer to get the
auto renew at the lower price.
And last but not least,
we have availability.
Cleared for Sale.
Kind of want to demystify
what that cleared for sale
button does in iTunes Connect.
We get the what does this
do question quite a lot.
And it's just a radio button, yes or no,
set for every In-App Purchas
in iTunes Connect.
And just to kind of highlight what
happens when you do set this to no,
I wanted to walk through all
these available actions for you.
So a new purchase for a customer.
We require that the In-App Purchas
is cleared for sale in order for new
customers to purchase the In-App Purchas.
If it's not cleared for sale,
then they cannot purchase it.
You as a developer can deliver
content regardless of the setting.
So it doesn't matter if
it's clear for sale or not.
We want to allow you to take care of
your existing customers that already
have your content on their device.
Restore.
You can restore content
regardless of the setting.
And the auto renew setting will be
disabled if it's not cleared for sale.
So you should kind of keep that in
mind when you are messing with this.
It tends to be sort of a mystery.
So we wanted to just make
that a little bit more clear.
And none of those settings
actually apply for Sandbox,
so you don't have to worry about that.
You can set something to not
clear for sale and actually have
it return in Sandbox for you.
Now, if you come to a time where you
need to discontinue a subscription,
we want to make sure that you
know that this is possible,
but we do want you to honor all
of your existing customers that
are expecting content from you.
Again, better customer experience.
If I've subscribed to something for
one year and maybe you as a developer
are no longer going to offer that
subscription for additional customers,
I want to make sure that as a customer
I receive that content for a year.
So please remember that you do
need to honor that agreement
you've made with the customer.
But the best advice we can give if you
need to discontinue a subscription is
remove the In-App Purchas from sale first
and then delete it out of iTunes Connect.
You no longer need to see it,
just tends to get confusing
and you can delete it.
And like the price increase
email notification,
we will send a notification to
let the customer know that the
subscription was actually discontinued.
We want to present them with the
option to go in and subscribe to any
new duration you might have available.
So to summarize best practices, remember,
these are your customers.
We're very happy to provide this
amazing marketplace and we're
so excited that you're there to
develop apps for us in the store.
But these are your customers.
Take care of them.
The great thing about subscription
is that it is long term.
You're establishing that
relationship with them because
they're going to keep coming back.
They're going to want
to get more content.
They're going to auto renew.
It's a great relationship between
the customer and developer.
And think global.
We are moving very fast globally
and we just announced this week that
we're going to be moving into more
app stores worldwide and we want
you to come with us on that journey.
We really give you a lot of
tools to localize your content
and we think that's really,
really important.
So for more information,
please contact our wonderful
app services evangelist,
Paul Marcos.
Documentation that we
recommend you check out.
In-App Purchasse programming
guide is a really great resource,
covers a lot of the
information you've seen today.
And then our iTunes
Connect developer guide,
it's really great, includes all the setup
step by step for you.
Getting started with In-App Purchasse,
great resource for links
and developer forums.
Get help from your fellow developers.
Some related sessions we had yesterday,
the selling products with StoreKit,
great session.
We had the building great newsstand
apps a little bit earlier today.
If you're a newsstand developer,
check that out on video.
And then what's new in iTunes Connect for
app developers took place this morning.